So so far we've just looked at joining two tables together.
But in theory we can actually join as many tables as you want.
Together in one select statement.
So in this video we're going to be looking at joining the products customer and orders table together
in one select statement.
So let's do that now.
So here I've selected stuff from orders and you can see we have to idée and we have a product ID and
a customer id failed and then we have the all the time.
So these products ID uncustomary de fields or foreign keys to the products and the Customers table respectively.
So we can actually join in the Orders table to the Products table and the Customers table in the same
select statement and retrieve data from free tables.
So let's try and write a select statement which will retrieve the name and the price from the Products
table.
The first and last name from the Customers table I need all the time from the Orders table Celeste's
type selects P door name to begin is called products pay Pido name P-doc price see Dalt first name.
See your last name and then I talk all the time from a nest made product saw first table.
So products we want to join.
So we're just going to be doing in a joins on the orders table.
Now we can join the products in the customers table together directly because they don't have any related
columns.
So we have to join through the orders table.
So we have to join in on orders.
I say we need to type products pay
join on orders on P dot ID is equal to door Product ID.
So that's join two tables together the products and the orders.
And now we need to join in the Customers table.
And then on the next line we can type join.
Customers see on.
And now we need to find the common columns between the customers table and the orders table.
So it is all and C or ID is equal to both customer ID.
So we're not joining the customers in the products table directly.
Joining the customers and the orders table and the products and the orders table.
So we can run this statement now and you can see we have the name from the products table and the price
on the table.
Then we have the first and last name from the customers table and we have the all the time from the
Orders table.
So we retrieve data from three separate tables in one select statement by joining the free tables together.
And of course we could if we had more tables in our database we could keep joining more and more tables
together.
So a full table by just typing join on the next line the fifth table and so on and so forth.
And of course we can add where clause is to this just like we can for other join statements.
So let's say where last name is equal to.
MARTIN So your last name is from the customer table.
So we type type.
See your last name is the call to Martin
and we can also order this by to order a time
and run statement.
And now we have all the orders from Chris Martin ordered by order time.
So you can see like espresso say but sometimes he goes for a full two or even a couple night.
So this is how we join more than two tables together in one select statement.